Okay, say that again.
Academics, pimps and fosterers who are educated beyond their intelligence.
And I've really come to dislike them.
I think they're overpaid.
And I really don't think they're genuine.
Nowadays, I think academics, and I'm talking about even the best schools have at MIT year where I've taught, they see teaching as a trade, not a mission.
But the old guy, and they're pedantic.
And Yale, I mean, oh, you should see the, you know,
Well, I have a theory that a lot of critics want to be writers.
So what they have done in the deconstruction world, in the semiology, is actually, they've become the own, they know more about Moby Dick than Melville.
What Melville didn't know, they say, was what I know.
And the students revere this.
Oh yeah, they're gold.
But the old guy, the old guy's like, well, the people that put together that Riverside Shakespeare, Gwyn Evans, and, yeah.
Well, I get a lot, and I just wanted to get back, and because I get a lot in that misogynist library, I get a wonderful help from that, to do that.
And so you get a kick out of it.
I don't mean exhaustive, but I get some really astonishing, it's about five pages.
And that's the kind of thing that they were, you know, a double-digit, oh my God, do you want to cut that?
No, I don't want to cut that.
Do you want to cut the Ithaca chapter from Ulysses?
You know?
Not that I'm making that... How did that book do, by the way, commercially?
Darkinville's Cat?
Yeah.
It never was published in paperback, and it's the only book of the Burgess 99 that never was.
It's amazing.
Sad.
But here's what I want to say about the primary colors.
It really is a making of... Do you have an agent that's tried to... Well, we're going to do that.
We might try to do that in the fall.
Wouldn't Vintage, wouldn't Marty Asher, or would Vintage bring something like that out?
My agent's working on it, yeah.
But I just wanted to say that that...
primary colors under the rubric of red, no pun intended, good title though, rubric of red, you know, rubric, yeah, does have that compilation, does have that idea of gathering, under this one umbrella, the many.
And that's wonderful, and that's why if you have that zeal to do that, no book is ever close to finished.
You always have to see another character could have said this, because there are people that finish their books and put pages, and I have a tendency to do it with my novel,
But this is the first non-fiction book I've ever published.
And I can see why, oh, I hate to read it.
Do you have a sense of trepidation seeing it out there as such?
None, no.
I'd like to see it do well, but I had ambitions for my other books, and they're just not beach books.
Do you remember Richard Yates?
I loved him.
Y-A-T-E-S?
Yeah, he lived in Boston.
Wonderful novelist.
I remember asking him...
Boy, if I knew how to write it, he was a writer's writer.
Yeah.
Eleven kinds of loneliness.
What the hell was the other one?
I've never read any of this.
Revolutionary Road was his famous novel.
He's a little boss.
He died.
He had all kinds of problems.
He said, if I knew how to write a bestseller, I'd do it in a second.
Yeah.
But it's hard to predict.
But you can't.
Yeah, it's hard to predict.
You know, we have brilliant quotes in this book.
This is a real interesting thing to mention.
In terms of the rocket ship.
The rocket ship is there.
They're publishing a flyer.
Alan will probably send you one.
I'm sure he'll send you one, or I'll give him.
But we have major remarks from Updike, Robertson, Davies, Annie Proulx, who won the National Booker, James McCourt.
And the Pulitzer, I think.
Yeah.
And now they could, you know, a lot of times publishers can make a vessel.
They can really push this.
Full page in New York Times.
But there's a strange...
crossing of Karen into the underworld, and you're not sure what takes place in that crossover.
So I say that book could go right into the drink and be reviewed in short takes in the New York Times, get no attention, and drop dead, or it could become a bestseller and the first non-fiction bestseller list.
That's how much faith I have in the non-serendipitous
reading world.
It's the kind of book that can really take off on college campuses.
But I'm talking about real big sales.
I'm talking about if they pushed it.
In many ways, publishers can make a bestseller.
But then on the other hand, they've gone oftentimes with major pushes, and the book has gone into the drink.
Like this Bridges of Madison County, bad as it was, that was a small printing, and that thing went and took off.
It's one of the great mysteries of
the last 25 years of publishing it.
To me it is.
I've read it.
Have you read it?
No, I couldn't.
It's impenetrable.
This is in the other direction.
A totally vapid work as far as I'm concerned.
There's one guy in the New Yorker said, there's not a line in it that couldn't have made a lyric sung by the Carpenters.
Did you see the review of John Gregory Dunn's novel in the New York Times the other day?
his new novel of Atlantic City.
No, I didn't.
But he said, there's one funny line.
He said, have you ever noticed that every poem, every Emily Dickinson poem, you could sing it to the music of the Yellow Rose of Texas?
Yeah, I did see that.
And then he gave an example, and it was funny.
That's right.
I thought, I remember reading, I didn't know what that was in there.
I didn't read that.
I thought that was hilarious.
And by the way, I then in my mind went through about four poems, and almost every one.
Every one you could tell.
After great pain, after great pain, a formal feeling comes.
Yeah, every one.
Yeah, La Rose of Texas.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, after great pain, a formal feeling comes.
That's funny.
Of course, she's more than her metrics, that's what he didn't mention.
You wrote your name, Emily, here, several times.
Yeah, as I said, this is a reflection of a lot of my taste, and that's an important point for me, because my personal ambition was to not, although I mentioned, only in a few instances, what's that guy from the 60s, Watermelon Sugar, Brodigan, the guy that killed himself, he's a trash head, but I mentioned him a couple of times, and I noticed I mentioned him about three times.
So people are going to think, oh, he likes Proust and Brautigan.
But actually, I don't think I've even read Brautigan.
I think I hoovered those up somewhere.
When you were doing this, I mean, were you alert to them?
You'd see something on green, you'd see something on yellow.
Pull over the side of the road.
You really would.
You're constantly jotting things down.
Yeah, pretty much.
And I picked the brains of friends of mine.
I wrote Annie Dillard and asked her, do you have any, you know.
But it's surprising.
People, again, people, I love the challenge.
I love the challenge of coming up with an observation.
A lot of people didn't, you know, help me that way.
Well, I mean, you mentioned the volcano of 91, you know,
gave us those sunsets.
Tim O'Brien's new book is all about pink.
I'm doing my first piece for Minneapolis.
It's going to take me once a month starting.
That's great.
Tim O'Brien's... Is this the guy that wrote... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I never did read that book.
It won the National Book Award.
I love this.
Is that about Vietnam?
Yeah, and he said he's done.
He's 47 years old, and he said, I don't believe him.
I think he's going through a personal crisis.
The thing is, I like to see people, though, that don't have this play every tournament.
My brother Paul writes a book here.
Let's talk about that at some point.
I mean, if you don't mind giving me a couple of graphs on the family thingy, I think that's okay.
No, it's overplayed.
I love my family.
It's a talented family of writers.
It's interesting in our family, everybody has a different style.
Like my brother Peter and I, he was in Time magazine, did you see that?
He has a new book called Translating L.A.
This is my youngest brother Peter, Random House.
So we all have different styles, writing styles, and go down different highways.
But I'm from a very talkative family, and you sound like you might be too.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, my friend Chris Lydon always says that we're from the, he calls us the Flying Wallendus, we got to Medford, Massachusetts, but the Flying Wallendus was the circus.
Yeah, well, it must have been a very active house though, you must have really encouraged the imagination.
It was, my parents were very good like that when we were growing up.
They were people that actually wanted a big family.
There were seven kids.
They wanted a big family.
My father, you know, that cheaper-by-the-dozen syndrome of the father that every Sunday would take us to a different historical place in Boston.
We had whaling museums and South of the Seven Gables.
When we were seven and eight, and then when we came back, he would like us to often ask us to write an essay about it.
But I grew up valuing authors and not cowboys.
I mean, I love Babe Ruth and Ted Williams and Sam Houston, but I had a book called 50 Famous Americans, and the authors in it imprinted on me as being the great, wonderful, you know, geniuses and admirable people.
To be an author, to write with a quill.
I remember there was a picture of Washington Irving, a drawing of Washington Irving leaning on his finger.
And I just, you know...
Is there anything to be gleaned from your experience in the monastery, or is that just something that came in light?
In terms of writing?
Yeah, in terms of your development.
Oh, it was central to my development.
Is this something that you're talking about growing up loving writers?
Yeah.
But I didn't know about this, though.
You clearly must have been...
Well, I grew up in a Catholic house.
A life of meditation.
Well, no, not really.
Maybe it was to get away from all the noise in my house.
No, we grew up in a Catholic family.
None of us went to parochial schools.
I think my sister, one of my sisters maybe did.
We went to public schools.
No, I had read Thomas Merton on my own.
My mother actually gave me a copy of it, but then read it and was impressed.
And after high school, made some retreats out there.
But it was central to my...
and development in that they were the paradigm of goodness, those monks, and still stand for me as the high-water mark of, you know, civilized and spiritual and dedicated human beings, although there were some strange fellows in there, but for the most part it was a very touching experience.
And did you expect to join their ranks?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
This is how you... I was a novice.
...intended to spend your life?
Absolutely.
Yeah, I was a novice, and by the way,
It was only, I started writing in there, I started writing rather bad poetry, and not that some people would say it still continues, but... How old were you, or what?
I was 17.
And how long were you there?
A couple of years.
Okay.
Yeah.
But I started writing in there, and when I left there, I actually...
And cross on, that's something I wanted to do.
You know, Freud taught... Oh, yeah.
Medford High School.
And then you went to the monastery.
Right.
And did the family try to stop you?
No, well, my mother and father always wanted us to do what we wanted.
No, they were... I think they were sad that I was leaving.
But, you know, there's this idea that Freud said that we... You know, the first four wishes we have are really central to everything.
You know, the rosebud idea of Citizen Kane.
And I always had that kind of interest in that monastic, I mean, things that I had read when I was a little kid.
But it really wasn't for me.
I've never married, but I've since wanted to marry.
But after I left there, I went to the Franciscans, you know, missionary.
I was there for two and a half years and was interested in becoming a priest, but then I didn't.
How about, and then why don't you just finish it off the background?
Your education, I guess, you've got a PhD in... Yeah, a PhD in English.
UVA, Virginia.
Yeah, that's how you know the Barrett.
Clifton Waller Barrett.
Well, I mean, I heard... I was there two years after Fulton came.
I went there in 64, and there were great Fulton stories.
In fact, you know, I just... Joe Blartner, you mentioned, I was just in Truro, visiting his daughter, who's in Wellesley, and I went and had dinner with him, and he...
I hadn't seen him for 26 years.
He was a teacher of mine in Virginia.
And he got very negative reviews, and he was a very—he almost killed him.
I think that's one of the great literary publications.
Well, it's a wonderful—and by a former student, Paul Gray, at Time Magazine, you should see that review.
It was an ad hominem attack.
So I got a doctor.
I quote it in my book.
He has—let me just shut the video and take it.
I was in touch with Styron.
I'm trying to go to the American Academy in Rome for a year just to write in peace and get away.
So I was looking for a copy of Sophie's Choice.
I didn't care if it was a first edition of reading copy, a hardcover I wanted to give to this person.
We had been talking about Styron.
This is a sign of bookstores.
I'm not going to go to any bookstores in the Cape.
I'm sharing this thought with you.
It's gossipy, though.
I love gossip.
I'll give you a few stories of my own.
And so I went into, just as I was going into, Ben Mewes had a copy of Panassas.
He opened a copy, and there were about 20 copies in the primary column.
Oh, really?
So this is right now?
Yeah, it just happened, and he asked me to sign them.
I don't like to sign books for just abstract, you know, to sell them.
He's going to make a lot of money on them.
I'm not saying that I'm, you know, Robert Lowell.
So anyway, put them away, you know.
Anyway, so I... Signing them does...
They can't be returned.
I couldn't give a shit.
I honestly couldn't care if they were returned.
And that's what he said, because he is so cheap.
He is.
He is so cheap, that rather than say, it would be an honor, I'd like to have them sign, and we'd value them.
Well, he should do, then.
Let me just say, have a knife for you.
No, but what I'm saying, yeah, but Nick, instead, why don't I come to my punchline?
Instead of saying, hey, look, Alex, these enhance the value of the book.
I'm not, he said, we won't return them.
Oh, fuck you.
But anyway,
Here's the punchline.
He called me the next day.
I'm not making this up.
He said he had a copy of Sophie's Choice for $7.50 and I could come and get it.
I said, aren't you going to send me the book?
I just signed 18 copies or 20 copies of that.
No.
He didn't say no and hung up.
That was five or six days ago.
I've never got the book.
Now there's a bookseller.
And Nancy Titcombe, I want to just one other thing.
I was asked to do an article for a magazine in which I was talking about how to get through the Cape inexpensively.
And I mentioned in passing that only one bookseller in Provincetown ever gave me a discount.
And Nancy Titcombe, I went in there with a guest, and it jumped into my face because I had done that.
She could have called me aside and said, hey, but it was a rude, vulgar, vicious, unkind thing to do.
And with about five other customers.
So what did she do there?
She said, look at this.
You need, that reflects on you.
I only gave a discount.
It was published in this kind of like, you know, Cape Cod and $5 a day thing.
Oh, I see.
Oh, so you wrote this thing and she jumped on it.
And she jumped, she had a couple, and I'll tell you something, that stupid bitch, I bet, has never read a book of mine.
But what she did read was the column.
And so, in other words, I guess the point I want to make, Nick, is, stridently, I'm fed up with booksellers, and they're pains in the ass.
Nick's subject... I like to get a bill every once in a while.
Well, no, and what you're doing is fun.
I've made my scores of Ralph's.
And Nick...
But, Nick, what you do is what I do.
I go to book stores, and that's interesting, that's a bargain, yeah.
But I'll tell you something.
I have no appetite to do it.
I'd like to do this in Oregon, Idaho, and some other place.
I've lived here too long.
But I'll tell you something.
They're parsimonious, they're unimaginative, they're gossipy, they're unkind, and worse, they're unjust and unfair.
This has needed to do with it.
You're angry.
I am angry.
I think that they're one way.
It's a pathetic thing.
And I will never sign any books for him.
I'm not trying to say either by... Did you sign, by the way, all those books?
Yeah, I signed all the books, and he didn't even thank me.
In his view, he's doing you a favor.
Believe me, he thinks it, and he's a bullshit artist.
He knows he's not doing me a favor, but that's his persona.
That's his mask.
Well, go in there tomorrow.
Just go in there tomorrow.
Nick, go in there tomorrow and say that we talk about our interview.
I'd like to know.
We're doing an interview.
And say, I want to buy five.
They're signed.
I'll sign five for you if you want.
But I'm just saying, if you go in there.
I wrote one to be signed.
All right, Nick, but if he.
And I want to describe it.
Okay, I'd like you to walk in and say, I'd like to buy four of these books.
I mean, they're signed.
And just to see, are they more expensive?
And I'll bet they will be.
I bet, unfortunately, Ben knows who I am.
They're bullshit, honestly.
Let's change the subject.
Okay, okay.
But you are a collector of things.
You have some thoughts about collecting.
We've talked plenty about the primary book.
I'm a book collector in a... It doesn't even have to be booked, but tell me, you must have some thoughts about... I have a good collection of... ...to gather things.
I have, unfortunately, a streak of that.
But I have a great collection of 45 RPM records.
I love... You said 78s in here.
Well, I have 78s.
Did I tell you that Steven Blumberg has a 120,000... You did, and he's beaten me by a lot.
But I have a good collection of... I have, you know...
I have Sinatra 78s and Gene Autry.
I have some interesting 78s.
But I love music and books.
But every book I buy, I read.
Every book in this house I bought, took home under my arm, and read, or want to read.
And every record.
So it has nothing to do with show or bibliomania to the point where... You don't have to be mania.
No, I'm a reader.
And I'll tell you one thing.
I think the primary... People say, how did you know all this?
And, you know, it's an interesting question.
Well, that we can use.
How do you know all this?
And Nick, the answer's simple.
I'm a reader.
And I'm a conversationalist.
And I can, everything that you told me about, you know, these things I'll remember, that you're talking about these books and collectors, and I'm interested, I'm a reader.
And I can, and that's why a lot of people don't know this stuff, is because they don't read books.
Do you remember that wonderful line in the movie, The Three Days of the Condor?
Yeah.
Remember the movie?
Well, actually, that character is based on one of my collectors, Walter Forzheimer, who is the spy collector.
This is Forzheimer.
I went to his house in the Watergate, and he's got the greatest spy collection in the world that's going to Yale.
But anyway, and he built the CIA's library.
Yeah.
And so, this guy Grady did that book.
He based it.
But let me just finish.
Remember they said,
The John Houseman character says, how can he know all this?
How can he do this?
What does he do in the agency?
He reads books.
Yeah.
But tell me something.
No wonder he can do all this.
People say, why is so-and-so interesting a person?
I mean, I've known Edward Gorey.
is a tremendous reader.
And why is he witty?
Why is he funny?
Why is he full of anecdotes and charm?
Because he's a reader.
I can name 25 people, and you can probably name more.
They're just wonderful, even shy people, when you tap them.
Because they read.
But getting back to that movie, was the Robert Redford character the one who supposedly did the reading?
He was the reader, yeah.
Oh, he was the reader.
He was the one who didn't get killed.
He was out getting caught.
And they took out everybody.
The CIA killed their own people.
He comes back and discovers it.
Now, he's on the run.
Yeah, I remember the story.
I never liked him much.
But he's defeating all of these sophisticated... I mean, it's just a great line.
No, I know.
They said, how can he do all this?
What does he do for us?
He says, he reads books.
Yeah.
He reads books.
So then it was clear.
Of course he knows all of this stuff.
He understands all of this stuff because he reads books.
There's a great quote from Winston Churchill, which I use in my book...
from Thoughts and Adventures, and Churchill says, the question is asked, do you read all your books?
Of course, he must have had 50,000 books.
And he said, no, it's impossible.
I don't read them all.
And he said, it's not necessary for a gentleman to read all the books that he owns.
What is necessary is to know what he has, where it is, and how it can help him when he needs it.
I look at my library like that.
I've got 20,000 books in my house.
Of course I haven't read them all.
How can I possibly read them all?
Tell me something.
Do you have insurance on them?
I mean, do you... Well, they all aren't weary.
Don't forget, I review and I get... No, but what about my question?
I know...
Neither do I, and if people are always telling me to do that, you know, but I guess if Tom comes to my house, you think he's going to give a shit about these ugly Uncle Tom's cabins?
He's going to throw them in the pool.
No, I know, but that doesn't put no money there.
There is a certain kind of Bloomberg that would, I only worry sometimes, the thing is, I think what you have to do occasionally, what I think I should do is get a book seller to come in and give them an appraisal, and
They know more than you do?
I doubt it.
No, but your own appraisal, I think, is invalid.
I don't know.
It's a subject that I think about once a year.
It scares me, because I have some things.
Uncle Bob's cabin.
I've got Emily Dickinson's first.
I published some of the poetry, which I got for $15 up in Fitchburg, from a little old lady in the street, and I got it for $10.
I beat it down for $50.
That's one reason.
If you go to hell, it might be there.
Tell me something.
She was happy.
It was a consummated deal.
Tell me some of the interesting autographs that you have.
My personal collection.
No, not personal collection.
Interesting autographs in your library.
Well, I'm about to tell you.
No, but I mean, I don't mean, like, you know, to Nick from... Yeah, but I've got a thousand books like this.
I've been doing this for 16 years.
No, but what, okay, okay, go ahead.
I've got Tom Wolfe and the right stuff, and I've got... Yeah, but he's a half.
I'm talking, okay, but I'm talking about your most valuable autographs.
To you, to you.
I don't mean, I don't... The most valuable inscribed book to me.
No, wait a second.
Listen to my question.
No, listen to my question.
Not the most valuable book, in terms of money,
or inscribed to you, what are your most valuable autographs to you?
In other words, not inscribed to you, because that limits it.
I think of them as a family.
To cut anyone out is... You know, I know a guy at Andover... I don't loan any books, you know, no books leave my house.
You don't want to answer my question.
Okay, I know a guy... They're all very... I thought you might say, you know, I have Alfred Lord Tennyson, it means a lot to me.
I have a guy, let me just while you're thinking, at Andover, that has almost every wall in his room an original Ansel Adams.
Well, can you say that?
Ansel Adams photograph.
If he printed it himself.
Yeah, valuable.
And he signed it.
One of the worst books.
$50,000 maybe.
Each one.
For that moonrise in New Mexico.
They're awesome.
I can't answer that question.
If you come to my house, I'd love you to come sometime.
We'll go from room to room.
I'll pull little things out.
I guess the Scarlet Letter that I have is the dearest book.
Is it signed?
It's not, but it made me a book collector.
You're rowing down another stream.
I'm interested in a signed book.
I guess the six Faulkners that I have.
Yeah, that's a good... You know what I always wish I had signed was a Malcolm Lowry under the volcano.
I have a first edition of it.
Really, that's if you have it with a jacket.
Yeah.
That's worth good money.
Worth a lot, yeah.
I never think of the money, even though I'm aware of that.
I've never sold any one, but, you know, I...